---
template: blog-post
title: How to burn fat fast in 2021
slug: burn-fat-fast-in-2021
date: 2020-12-30 17:44
description: How to burn fat fast is a common question asked from those that
  have extra weight to lose in the United States. Some people can eat a high
  protein diet and shed weight quickly, while others can’t. Other people try all
  the fad diets out there and find that they work, but they don’t work for them
  long. You need to know how to burn fat fast and that can take a lot of trial
  and error.
featuredImage: /assets/man-coaching-client-cardio.jpg
---
<!--StartFragment-->

How to burn fat fast is a common question asked from those that have extra weight to lose in the United States. Some people can eat a high protein diet and shed weight quickly, while others can’t. Other people try all the fad diets out there and find that they work, but they don’t work for them long. You need to know how to burn fat fast and that can take a lot of trial and error.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

You might have heard of Intermittent Fasting (IF). Fasting helps you burn fat, but it also removes all the nutrients in your body. Keep in mind that during the fast, you lose your electrolytes, your fluids, and many vitamins and minerals. Be sure to make sure you are getting adequate amounts of all the necessary vitamins and minerals that you need, including magnesium, vitamin D, calcium, and potassium.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

Weight loss is a long-term process. It doesn’t have to be an overnight thing. Taking the time to reach your weight loss goals takes a lot of patience and hard work. Be sure to keep tabs on your progress and don’t allow any drastic changes to make your life miserable. Remember that fast weight loss is rarely sustainable and might be more likely to result in your putting all the weight back on when you begin eating normally again. So here are our tips on how to burn fat fast.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 1. Examine your current diet.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

If you want to make any changes to your diet, make sure that you have a baseline before you start. Losing weight requires you to eat less calories than you use, and unfortunately the process of losing weight leaves your body with some extra weight, so it takes a long time to lose. If you are too low on calories, your body will crave food to fill itself up.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Many people eat a diet low in carbs, but it is possible to eat a high fat, low carb diet. Try to use organic meat and avoid heavily processed foods. Also, avoid refined sugar and processed carbohydrates. Examine your meals and consider removing high-fiber foods. Add some lean protein and good fats to your diet. You might also find that you can get some of your nutrients through the foods you eat and can experiment with foods that are naturally high in protein, such as protein powder or cottage cheese.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 2. Increase your fitness level.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Exercise has a major effect on weight loss, so you need to be able to move. Whether you do weight training or a combination of strength training and cardiovascular workouts, your body needs to move.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Try to stick to an hour of exercise each day and increase your intensity gradually. Keep in mind that you should try to do a combination of lower and higher reps in your exercises. Each set should be 20-25% of your target heart rate. Don’t go so low that you are winded or feel like you might faint. Try to do a few sets of 8-12 reps per exercise. Focus on 1 set of 10-15 reps with a two minute break between each set. You can perform different exercises to work on different parts of your body, such as legs, arms, back, chest, and abs..

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 3. Get adequate sleep

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Sleep deprivation is a major factor in not burning fat. Sleep deprivation makes you retain more water and can make you gain weight. Your muscles and organs are continuously breaking down under sleep deprivation, so your metabolism slows. Sleep deprivation also leads to poor judgment, impaired coordination, mental fatigue, and can increase your risk for diabetes. Don’t take sleep for granted.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 4. Drink plenty of water

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

When you don’t drink enough water, you risk getting dehydrated, which can have a significant effect on your ability to lose weight. It can leave you feeling hungry and even increase your cravings for food. On top of that, your metabolism will be impacted.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Water also helps to reduce your appetite. The levels of hormones that regulate appetite and hunger are much higher in water than in other beverages.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

The amount of water that you should consume per day depends on your age. Adults should drink about eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day. Children and teenagers should drink about six 8-ounce glasses. Drink at least 64 ounces of water per day. If you are not used to drinking water, you can try adding 1-2 lemon slices to each glass.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 5. Decrease your caffeine consumption

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Caffeine is not only a stimulant, but it also constricts your blood vessels, thus increasing your blood pressure. Caffeine also has an irritating effect on the body when consumed in large amounts. Cutting down on caffeine can slow down your body’s reaction to sugar, which can result in weight loss. Caffeine withdrawal can also cause severe fatigue.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 6. Reduce the amount of alcohol you consume

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

Alcohol has been proven to interfere with your ability to lose weight. Alcohol also raises your body’s blood glucose levels, which slows down your metabolism. Your metabolism is usually between 70-75% of your calorie intake, but when you are drunk you may lose as much as 100%. This may mean that you can eat more without gaining weight because your metabolism will be slowed down.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 7. Don’t have any more than two sugary drinks a day.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

\
Sugar is a particularly fattening food. There are more than 600 different chemicals in sugar. This can cause your blood sugar to spike and cause a spike in your hunger hormone ghrelin. To stay in control of your weight, avoid sugar. Eat foods with a low glycemic index. This means your body’s response to sugar will be slower, and you will experience less hunger and cravings. It is best to have natural sugar. Your body does not require as much of the chemical kind. Also limit sugar-sweetened beverages to one serving per day.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 8. Avoid highly processed and refined foods.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

These foods usually have less fiber and good fats and more calories and less nutrients. A Harvard study found that the people who ate the most highly processed foods tended to be more obese and unhealthy. They were also more likely to have other health problems.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 9. Eat more raw vegetables and fruits

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Raw vegetables and fruit are packed with vitamins, minerals, and nutrients that your body cannot find in processed foods. Make sure you eat at least 2 cups of vegetables a day, and up to 5 cups of fruit. Limit the amount of sweets and high-fat foods you consume.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 10. Eat less fat

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Saturated fat and trans fats are very unhealthy. Fat-soluble vitamins and minerals in the fat will not be fully absorbed and will leave your body. Belly fat tends to be made up of fat and triglycerides, which can increase your risk of heart disease. Fatty fish are good, and it’s best to eat them twice a week.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 11. Eat fiber-rich foods

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Fiber is found in many different kinds of food. It helps to decrease hunger by slowing down your metabolism. It also helps to promote good digestive health. Fill up on fibrous foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans.

<!--EndFragment-->



<!--StartFragment-->

## 12. Stop smoking

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Smoking increases your risk of obesity and can cause other health problems. Smoking also takes a toll on your heart, causing premature death. It has been shown that smoking significantly raises your chances of being overweight and obese.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 13. Get more sunlight

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

It is believed that the amount of ultraviolet rays in sunlight can increase your metabolism. Also, you should get outside try to as much as possible. This will help your body recover more quickly. This will also keep your vitamin D levels healthy and help to fight cancer.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 14. Cut out dairy

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Dairy products are high in fat and can cause constipation. Dairy also tends to increase your appetite. As a result of all these things, dairy can cause weight gain. If you must have dairy products, use low-fat varieties. You can also find many great dairy-free alternatives. You can buy them at your local health food store. You can also make your own dairy-free products.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## 15. Eat fewer foods with high fructose corn syrup

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Foods that contain high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) tend to be high in calories and fat. So limit your consumption of these foods. These are commonly found in candy, soft drinks, breakfast cereals, and fruit drinks. Avoid foods that are sweetened with HFCS. You can also decrease the amount of added sugar in your diet.

<!--EndFragment-->