---
template: blog-post
title: What is affiliate marketing
slug: what-is-affiliate-marketing
date: 2021-01-04 08:43
description: Affiliate Marketing is when an online seller allows an online
  purchaser to make a purchase using their website, or where an online seller
  assists a link to other sites in order to earn a commission. In other words,
  it is a marketing tool, and it can be a great way to make some extra income
  and influence online shopping in 2021.
featuredImage: /assets/what-is-affiliate-marketing.jpg
---
<!--StartFragment-->

Affiliate Marketing is when an online seller allows an online purchaser to make a purchase using their website, or where an online seller assists a link to other sites in order to earn a commission.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

In other words, it is a marketing tool, and it can be a great way to make some extra income and influence online shopping.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## Which is the best affiliate program

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

There are many ways to earn money through affiliate marketing. You can earn a set monthly fee, a percentage of a sale, or a flat rate. Some offer commissions ranging from one-fifth to 25% of the revenue generated by sales, depending on your sales volume and their terms. Others offer $1/click, where you must click on an affiliate link to make a purchase.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

With the vast array of different affiliate networks to choose from, deciding which one to sign up with and use can be difficult.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

To help you narrow it down, here are five of the best affiliate networks you can use to generate additional income, and why they're the best of the best.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## Amazon Affiliate

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

One of the world's most well-known and trusted brands, Amazon has a lot of people clicking on their links every year. And for good reason — Amazon has a wide range of products, from tablets and smart phones, to more tech-based devices, like e-readers and Kindle devices.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Amazon does not have a monthly fee, nor does it charge commissions on sales. Instead, if you want to earn a commission on any sale of an Amazon affiliate product, then you must purchase that product through Amazon. Amazon then applies a portion of the product price to your account to share the commission with you.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

To get started on Amazon Affiliate, you must have a product you'd like to advertise, and then follow a few simple steps to be accepted as an Amazon affiliate. After that, you can begin earning commissions.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## Clickbank

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Clickbank is an affiliate program designed specifically for bloggers, and it has become one of the most well-known and successful affiliate programs.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Because Clickbank is specifically for bloggers, and bloggers can sell a wide variety of products, you will find a large variety of affiliate products on the Clickbank site. However, Clickbank only accepts products from about 80 brands. You can opt to also promote other products, like special offers, but you cannot create a custom affiliate program for a specific type of product.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Clickbank doesn't charge any fees for its affiliate marketing program, though if you want to get into the affiliate marketing field for your blog, then you will probably want to invest in some advertising

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## ShareASale

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

ShareASale has more than 2,000 sellers offering a variety of products and services. As an affiliate, you select any of the ShareASale sellers and attempt to direct sales to the website.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## Awin

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Awin is the largest affiliate network in the world, and they can earn affiliate revenue up to $1,600 a day. They are not a commission-based affiliate network, but rather a marketplace for brand names, retailers, and other marketers.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

There are nearly 2.5 million sites on the Awin network, including such notable brands as Microsoft, Dell, Sony, Samsung, and dozens of others. Their exclusive affiliates include bestsellers and popular sites, such as Smart Money Magazine, Livestrong, and US News & World Report.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

## BlueHost

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

BlueHost's affiliate program is limited, but it does offer a nice range of products and merchants. As an affiliate, you select any BlueHost merchant, and attempt to direct sales to the site.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

The affiliate program allows you to earn commissions on each transaction and also to receive a percentage of sales when a BlueHost customer makes a purchase. BlueHost does not charge any monthly fees for its affiliate program.\

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

There's no right or wrong way to choose an affiliate program, but for the purpose of this article, we're only considering the six affiliate programs that we believe are worth your consideration.

<!--EndFragment-->